---

title: "Finally Starting a Blog"
date: 2020-07-16
permalink: /blogposts/001_finally_starting_a_blog/
header:
  image: "/blogimages/001_finally_starting_a_blog/header.jpg"
excerpt: "Sharing my perspective of the human condition with everyone who stalks my website"

---

I don't mean to flex, but I scored in the 99th percentile on the SAT reading and writing portion, so I like to think I'm a pretty cool rat. Although my writing skills were impressive back in high school, adult life combined with the stress of trying to be a perfect student (didn't totally work out, ehhhh) resulted in me not writing nearly as much as I used to. Included on my mile-long list of things I want to do is a blog where I share all of the wierd stuff that's otherwise stuck flying around inside of my head. I feel as though my constantly running, self-criticizing, pattern-finding supercomputer of a brain has come up with a whole bunch of interesting and relatively unique things to say as a 19 year old shmuck wandering about this earth. This could eventually transform into a full-on side project with stuff for sale and webpage analytics to get my site to the top of google search results, but until I mature a bit more this'll stay as me writing a few paragraphs that no one will read (except the cutie reading this right now!).

# My Coronavirus Pity Party

Now, with this whole pandemic garbage going on, it makes sense that everybody has their own struggles that they're now forced to face head-on as a consequence of long-term social isolation. But in reality, my struggles are the only ones that actually matter. No one suffers as much as I do. In fact, I would go as far as saying that I am the only person on this planet that actually suffers, while everyone else is really just a bunch of needy crybabies. Below is a non-exhaustive list of the issues on my mind right now:

### Oh wow, that was... awkward...

As a introverted band nerd who likes playing with spreadsheets in his spare time, my ability to allow conversations to flow naturally has recently fallen by the wayside and has been replaced with me relying on other people to control the flow of conversation. I have a surprisingly large number of interesting things to say, but when I'm in the moment I draw a blank and find it difficult to recall thoughts and ideas. I'm not totally repulsive (ok, maybe sometimes, but only when I'm vulnerable, then I'm entirely cringe-inducing), but put me in a room with a <strike>robot</strike> smelly low IQ computer information systems major from community college who only defining personality trait is liking open source software (sorry man), and I'll try my hardest to avoid eye contact and agree to everything he says without actually processing it.

Awkwardness has been quite prevalent in my life for a while, and it has done a good job at preventing me from being able to pursue meaningful two-sided friendships and relationships. I'm not saying "boo-hoo, I has no friends", as I'm currently pretty content with not relying on anybody else to keep me happy and I am still searching for people interesting and deep enough to spend time and effort authentically befriending as opposed to the numerous acquaintances I currently keep around, but the whole "I is awkward because smart" thing is pretty shitty when you can't actually communicate your insights without waiting forever for your brain to figure out how to say words and form sentences.

Where coronavirus comes into play is this super rare and exotic condition called **depression**. It is difficult to hold a conversation about how the weather is outside when you're intensely focused on the void consuming every thought that passes through your head. I've found that when I have a depressive mood clouding my focus, my social skills peak at classic lines such as "Uh-huh... yea... oh cool \*nods\*... that's impressive... etc etc". This sucks when amplified by a lower quanity of social interactions as a result of coronavirus. At this moment, I spend a lot of my time wallowing in my interpersonal problems via a complicated Ni-Ti loop (more on that in a later post), so when someone interupts my mental map creating I just have this feeling of "Ok, time to plug back into reality so I can interface with this mere mortal long enough for them to go away so I can go back to solving this 5-dimensional calculus in my brainspace".

### You know what would be perfect? That thing over there!

This is a topic that cuts into my soul and skips it across the asphalt of a Detroit freeway during rush hour. My big head loves to strategize ways to make my life entirely perfect, with no loose ends or untraveled paths. In order to satisfy this unrealistic desire, I end up idealizing everything I see as interesting (chicken before the egg? idk) at some level. If I join a band program, it's because everyone there is a flawless intellectual demigod. The field of statistics and machine learning is filled with perfect people with PhDs and really sexy brains, so I'm gonna do that instead of being a lameass computer science major. The atmosphere of downtown Ann Arbor and the University of Michigan? How about "Dennis, if you don't attend UM Ann Arbor for at least your graduate classes, you have failed at meeting your potential and should request a retry at life"? 

Naturally, idealization extends itself in a very messy and cognitively dissonant manner when applied to  individuals. Although this is a normal thing to do in an attempt to simplify understanding a person, it has some pretty gross effects when you surround yourself with people pedestals and you compare your flawed self with the perfect images you've created inside of your head. I have found that far-end of the scale introverts are very easy to idealize (in both directions apparently, even people smarter than me think I'm smart hahaha) since they have a really selective filter to what they say, so you end up trying to extrapolate every little thing they say or do in an attempt to understand them. 

After a few days of making eye contact with a guy working at an Amazon warehouse who wears glasses and wore a UM School of Engineering t-shirt one time, or a guy working at McDonalds who wears glasses and studies Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Michigan Tech (I think there are some common themes here hahaha), actually having a conversation becomes a battle against concrete reality and the complex abstraction between the two ideals inside of each other's really smart brains. Because there is bound to be a massive gap between the two, saying words and forming sentences becomes a tedious task that usually ends in awkwardness. **This usually intensifies the concentration of idealization, which really really fucking sucks when you want to actually get to know the real person but your mind just sorta roadblocks you (this is the soul-crushing part in my opinion).**

As to whether these and similar cases are due to idealization or just a really deep mutual understanding of how smart brains do their thing, I still haven't figured out yet because in all of these cases the both of us are too shooken by the intellectualness of each other to hold a conversation without resolving to freezing up in overthinking mode. This freezing up of course could also just be awkwardness between two people who are used to sitting in the background, but either way this is something that I am totally facinated with. I haven't been able to find anything at all covering these types of experiences online, which is really frustrating because the feelings I experience when I'm near these types of people are extraordinarily deep and mindblowing (mostly because of the mutual aspect of it oh my goodness). You might say "Yeah Dennis, I think you're just bisexual" but I'm pretty sure I'm legitimately a sapiosexual with bisexual tendencies when gazing upon to the likes of Jeff Goldblum (<a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n-mpifTiPV4">expecially in Jurassic Park 1993</a>) or Chris H. Wiggins (<a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4FFwcL4xv8E">Chief Data Scientist at NY Times</a>).

### The many methods of derailing of my mental stability

A recent discovery of how my body works has been finding out that I am a **highly sensitive person**. Trace amounts of coffee or sugar send me into a super anxious brainspace, and if I pass a specific threshold, the anxiety drops off and transforms into full on emotional breakdowns and high levels of depression for the next 24 hours. I can physically feel substances and emotions inside my brain, with any negative emotions causing a particularly nasty compounding effect. 

I might elaborate on this realm of me in a later post, but basically put, this HSP thing makes being social a lot more complicated because I'm forced to constantly notice and adjust for my brain's unstable state. One time, I drank a starbucks iced coffee before a band event in attempt to make me less inside my head while talking to people, but it instead resulted in me totally powering off and walking away from the people I wanted to talk to while avoiding any sort of acknowledgement that they even existed. People might think I'm awkward because I like being in my head more than talking to people (not saying I don't), but in reality it's just that I'm dealing with an overwhemling quantity of pure garbage inside my spaceship of a brain and it'll be a few more years until I have it under control.

# Endnotes 

Extraverting my thoughts onto this sort of format feels like a good way to allow me to sort things out in my head, so I plan on continuing to write these things. The idea of doing unscripted vlogs of me walking around nature and urban places talking about society, self-improvement, and other random shit excites the hell out of me, so I'll start doing that as well when I get around to it. If you find any of this stuff I'm plastering on the internet interesting, feel free to share your ideas with me on my social media accounts.
